# Normals

This directory contains models for upscaling normal maps.

## Models

### 4x-Normal-RG0-BC1

```
Name: 4x-Normal-RG0-BC1
License: CC BY 4.0
Link: TODO
Model Architecture: ESRGAN
Scale: 4
Purpose: A 4x upscaler for BC1-compressed normal maps with a zeroed-out B channel.

Iteration: 320k
batch_size: 8
HR_size: 128
Epoch: 240
Dataset: Custom. See below.
Dataset_size: 577
Pretrained_Model_G: 4xESRGAN.pth
```

Description: A 4x upscaler for BC1-compressed normal maps with a zeroed-out B channel.
The output normals will also have a constant-zero B channel. Use external software or image editing plugins to properly normalize the generated normals and generate the Z component (if necessary). Do no rely on this network producing unit vectors.
The LR have been compressed with various BC1 compression settings (dithering, weighting) using Texconv version 2021.11.8.1. Since the contents of the B channel influence the R and G channels during compression, the LR were given a B channel that was either the Z component of the normal, a random constant color, or a random texture (usually the G channel of the associated albedo) before compression. The LR + B channel was then compressed and the resulting BC1-compressed DDS was converted back into a PNG and had its B channel zeroed out.

### 4x-Normal-RG0-uncompressed

```
Name: 4x-Normal-RG0-uncompressed
License: CC BY 4.0
Link: TODO
Model Architecture: ESRGAN
Scale: 4
Purpose: A 4x upscaler for uncompressed normal maps with a zeroed-out B channel.

Iteration: 350k
batch_size: 8
HR_size: 128
Epoch: 260
Dataset: Custom. See below.
Dataset_size: 577
Pretrained_Model_G: 4xESRGAN.pth
```

Description: A 4x upscaler for uncompressed normal maps with a zeroed-out B channel.
The input is required to have no alpha and constant-zero blue channel. The model can handle some light compression artifacts but has trouble with quantization artifacts.
The output normals will also have a constant-zero B channel. Use external software or image editing plugins to properly normalize the generated normals and generate the Z component (if necessary). Do no rely on this network producing unit vectors.
The LR have been generated by simply downscaling the HR.


## Data sources

The model in this directory were trained on normals from the following sources:

- https://github.com/JosephtheKP/sourceengine_tga_archive commit:e87d6b0c62672dafcca0af94f0dfbd20487e80d3
- https://polyhaven.com/
- https://freepbr.com/
- https://ambientcg.com/
